---
layout: main
title: "Water for the world"
---
Tom Standage, technology editor of _[The
Economist](http://www.economist.com)_, [writes](http://www.nytimes.com/2005/08
/01/opinion/01standage.html?ex=1280548800&en=1f703b85f17267b3&ei=5090&partner=
rssuserland&emc=rss) in the _New York Times_ op-ed pages on the lack of
difference between bottled and tap water.

  
He also notes that for less than one fourth of the global annual spending on
bottled water, clean water and adequate sanitation could be provided for
everyone on earth. Standage therefore recommends that instead of buying
bottled water, people instead donate the money to water charities to achieve
this goal.

  
Bottled water does have one thing going for it, however. It's price and
distribution is much less regulated than municipal water systems, which tend
to heavily subsidize water, making it available for free or very nearly free
regardless of what has to be done to get it to the tap. The amount of water
that gets wasted would drop dramatically if tap water prices actually
reflected the costs of the water.

  
Standage also notes that much of the time the only safe water in the
developing world is bottled water. This would indicate that the first world's
demand for bottled water (a "lifestyle choice") makes it harder to purchase
for those in the developing world, since the increased demand drives up the
price. However, it is this very demand that makes it possible for bottled
water companies to exist in the first place, and that provides a driving force
for those companies to continually improve the methods they use to obtain and
purify the water.

