---
layout: main
title: "The Coming Shift"
---
[This article](http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-
dyn/articles/A4248-2005Apr20_3.html) in today's Washington Post caught my
attention for two related reasons.

  
One is the point MacMillan makes about how critical internet access is
becoming, and how it is becoming assumed that everyone has it, which isn't
always the case. Hopefully, this point will soon be moot, as cities like
[Philadelphia go wireless](http://www.imakenews.com/innovationphiladelphia/e_a
rticle000300850.cfm?x=b3vn5LM,b1NyrLJC) (although that is facing some
[hurdles](http://www.post-gazette.com/pg/04329/416768.stm)). You can make the
point that the people who are lacking Internet access are the ones without
laptops to begin with; hopefully (warning, the optimism meter is through the
roof right now) the fact that computer capabilities rise so fast will help
prices to go down as well as things like wireless capability to become
standard.

  
The second reason it caught my attention is the style MacMillan uses, at least
in the online edition of the article. The text is absolutely peppered with
links. It looks like a blog. This no doubt has to do with his subject matter
and audience, but this is becoming more and more common in columns and even
articles. Maureen Dowd does it (or, more accurately, an underling does it when
she puts it online). The NY Times news department does it. This is the way
things are headed. People want to read things that they can immediately see
backed up, or to go off on a tangent if a point really strikes their interest.
I'm certainly not predicting the complete collapse of the print media, since,
as someone pointed out to me today (about the aforementioned Washington Post,
actually), there's just something about the actual paper. I agree with this, I
like reading the hard copy and am going to have to figure out a new way to get
my hands on hard copies next year. But just another sign of the times, which I
commented on extensively in my
[previous](http://www.livejournal.com/users/ironmanbretta)
[iterations](http://www.princeton.edu/~abrett/oldindex), and which I am
thinking about discussing again, since it's been a while.

