---
title: "And now for something completely different"
---
We interrupt this blog to bring you some musings from Andy Brett _(skip this
if you're interested in more important events like the [filibuster
protest](http://www.filibusterfrist.com), or [Bill Gates](http://www.npr.org/t
emplates/story/story.php?storyId=4624316&sourceCode=RSS) backing up [Tom Fried
man](http://www.nytimes.com/2005/04/29/opinion/29friedman.html?incamp=article_
popular_1), or the very interesting [prime time press conference](http://www.n
ytimes.com/2005/04/28/politics/29bush_transcript_web.html?pagewanted=all&posit
ion=): [Dems cry
foul](http://www.dailykos.com/storyonly/2005/4/29/10854/4168),
[Tierny](http://www.nytimes.com/2005/04/30/opinion/30tierney.html?hp) and
[FactCheck](http://www.factcheck.org/article323m.html), another organization
I'd like to work for, say otherwise, and that doesn't even get into the [other
half](http://gristmill.grist.org/story/2005/4/29/102317/241) of the speech on
his [energy policy](http://gristmill.grist.org/story/2005/4/28/153451/798))._

  
The basic idea, which I have been rolling around in my head for approximately
all of 24 hours at this point, is that I would take a leave of absence from
university next year. The plans for this summer would still be on (research on
hydrology in the Chesapeake Bay watershed), and so would Frosh Trip in the
fall (hopefully). But what I've been thinking about is taking the academic
year off to work for [Engineers Without Borders](http://www.ewb-usa.org/).
There is a [Princeton chapter](http://ewb-princeton.org/) who will be going to
Peru for a month this summer. I don't know if this would really be through the
Princeton chapter, though; it seems as if they focus on things that are
shorter term or over the summer, understandably. On the national
organization's website it says they are looking for committments of 6-12
months, so maybe the student chapters are exceptions when they do shorter
projects. I would definitely want something longer so that it would fill the
entire time off, or at least nine months of it to get me to summer 2006.

  
I would graduate in 2008 if this happened, since this would be a leave of
absence and not study abroad, so no official credit would be given.

  
As long as the program included "room and board" (tarp and pita) and travel,
although that could be fairly expensive, I would have no problem working with
no other compensation. Just staying afloat is fine with me; hopefully Alan G.
will keep prices in check while I am gone so my bank account doesn't become
worthless :-).

  
Language: Potentially take a crash course in Spanish or French this summer? I
will be working 40 hours a week, but that does leave a lot of time left over;
if this turns into a real possibility, I think that any language barrier would
be doable.

  
Other things to consider:

  
Passport, that's $100, but it's good for 15 years and I was thinking about
getting one anyway, since you're going to need one from Canada anyway now.

  
Financial aid: I don't think this will be a big deal, since it will just be
postponing things.

  
Insurance: I have to look into whether the University Health Plan would extend
to me if I'm on leave, i.e. if I could purchase it and if it is good enough,
since it might not cover a lot of things that might happen. This brings up two
more things:

  
1. Vaccinations: Likely out of pocket expense, could get costly, and

2. "Things that might happen": Keep checking the [US State Department Travel
Advisories](http://www.travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/tw/tw_1764.html).

  
Also, a primer on insurance would be helpful. This isn't the type of thing you
can just buy on the street, apparently.

  
In the interest of length, I am going to cut this off here. Next post is a
continuation, focusing on some reasons why I want to do this instead of a
stream of consciousness that's only helpful to me in getting things cleared
out of my head.

