---
title: "Roar From the Heartland?"
---
The cuts to agricultural subsidies that were a part of the Bush budget [don't
look like they will
survive](http://www.truthout.org/issues_05/041305LC.shtml). The cuts would
have saved $8 billion over 10 years, according to the CBO, by lowering the
maximum subsidy a farmer could get from $360,000 to $250,000 and by cutting
all subsidies by 5%. However, the cuts for the Department of Agriculture as a
whole will still probably be between $2.8 billion and $5.3 billion, so
something is going to have to go on the chopping block.

  
According to Senator Lincoln, a Democrat from Arkansas, lawmakers have heard
the "roar from the heartland" and are responding to it. It "unfairly rests the
deficit reduction burden on the backs of working families" according to her
[statement](http://lincoln.senate.gov/press_show.cfm?id=236294) on the issue.
The obvious counter to this is that if your income is more than $250,000
annually, most people don't think of that as the "back of a working family."
However, there is a counter to this in that as I understand it, the limit is
for a farm as a whole, so eliminating the subsidy for a big farm would narrow
profit margins and lead the farm to reduce its wages for lower class employees
or lay them off. The much BIGGER argument here, though, is one that I made on
February 6th, after the budget came out, so in the spirit of transferring
select posts, here is the 2.6.05 post, shortened:

  
_The president's fiscal year 2006 budget is out, or at least the most
"newsworthy" bits have already been leaked, since I think it comes out
tomorrow officially. The biggest item that I have seen so far is the reduction
in the subsidies for farmers. Right now it's a $15 billion dollar/year
subsidy, according to the LA Times, which in my mind is fairly excessive; the
maximum subsidy per farmer, which was $360,000 will be trimmed all the way
down to $250,000 if the budget is passed. This is a good step toward the US
actually practicing what it preaches in terms of free trade. It's hard to get
angry at cheap imports coming into the country when things like rice get
subsidized here and then shipped to other countries, interfering with the
economy there. Tim Johnson, chief executive of the California Rice Commission,
said, in what I think was supposed to be an argument for keeping the subsidies
in place, that "about 40% of what's produced in the state is exported to
Japan, Korea, Taiwan, and other countries." He's really shooting himself in
the foot there. There is a very logical line of thinking that links
agricultural subsidies to terrorism and/or general dislike for the US. It's
basically what I just outlined, but as the US government pays for rice
production and other things, and those products get shipped abroad, the price
of those commodities plummets, debilitating everyone else's economy. This
really gets everyone mad (think how mad the US gets when cheap foreign steel
gets sent to the US, and multiply by several times over)._

  
This is very irritating. An actual good idea in the president's budget gets
slashed by Democrats for special interest groups.

