---
layout: main
title: "The Economist"
---
The Economist ran as their cover story this week an opinion column called
"[Rescuing Environmentalism](http://economist.com/opinion/displaystory.cfm?sto
ry_id=3888006)." It was spurred by the recent [Death of
Environmentalism](http://www.grist.org/news/maindish/2005/01/13/doe-reprint/)
article by Shellenberger and Nordhaus. The Economist declares: "They are
right."

  
To some extent I agree with The Economist. The movement that was started in
the 50's and 60's, the movement that is what is stereotypically thought of
when the word environmentalist is brought up, the movement of saving the
whales and forming human chains around trees and aspiring to "The Monkey
Wrench Gang" is dead or at the very least dying. This may be attacking a straw
man, but the straw man I'm painting is still what most people think of when
they think "environmentalist."

  
The death of that environmentalism, of the knee jerk response that anything
nuclear, anything free market, anything grown farther than 25 miles away,
anything corporate, is automatically bad, is a good thing and a step in the
right direction. If you think that there is no one left who fits into this
mold, please see the [comments of
jdhlax](http://gristmill.grist.org/user/jdhlax/comments) over at Gristmill.

  
The Economist gets it wrong, however, by assuming that the entire movement
fits into this mold. There are plenty, in the US in particular, who are
redefining the "movement" and incorporating free markets, an openness to
nuclear power (or at least an openness to talk about it), a willingness to
consider cost benefit analysis, and an understanding that little things such
as, oh, I don't know, the economy matter too. See the [Apollo
Alliance](http://www.apolloalliance.org/), [Grist](http://www.grist.org), [The
Commons](http://commonsblog.org/), just to name and link to a few.

