---
layout: main
title: "Drinking From the Firehose, or, Completely Different III"
---
I had a meeting about the plans for this summer in Baltimore, which are
starting to really take shape. I am very excited about them, because the
phrase that came to mind in the meeting was "drinking from the firehose" just
because there are so many things that I am hearing and bookmarking to learn
about later, just letting things wash over me and learning by osmosis as they
say. This is always a very exciting feeling and in th past it has always
worked out well in the end, so that is a good sign.

  
As I was thinking about that, however, it occurred to me that some of my
concerns/ideas/worries/impulses that have gotten me to start thinking about
taking the year off next year are related to this whole idea of drinking from
the firehose. There are SO many things that I see all the time that I want to
do something about, that I am earmarking for later exploration. While I know
and am upset that going somewhere with Engineers Without Borders would only be
focusing on a few specific things and completely ignore others, in another
sense it is the epitome of drinking from the firehose and totally immersing
yourself in a problem or issue.

  
On a related note, devoted readers (all three of you) will notice that the
title has changed. After contemplating this for a while, and considering "What
About Everything" as another possible title to reflect what I'm talking about,
I went with "Citing the Text," since I feel that is such an integral part of
blogging and, well, everything else.

  
On an unrelated note, Laura is doing a great job at the [Frist
Filibuster](http://www.filibusterfrist.com); I'm watching via webcam. And I
think that Shellenberger (see previous post on The Economist for who this is)
just asked me to watch his laptop for him for a second while he went to the
bathroom. I'm blogging from the panel discussion which is about to start with
Shellenberger, Nordhaus, Oppenheimer, and Peter Singer: way cool, I might even
"liveblog" it as they say.

