---
type: post
layout: main
title: "Death of Environmentalism"
---
In lieu of the "liveblog" that obviously didn't take place yesterday and which
Laura found so amusing, I thought I'd attempt to distill the "Values in
Nature" conference into this post instead, or at least the parts that I
attended.

  
In my view, Shellenberger and Nordhaus have hit the nail on the head. [Read
their paper](http://www.grist.org/news/maindish/2005/01/13/doe-reprint/). It
is seminal. Also read it because what I'm about to say probably isn't quite an
accurate representation of their views, so if you want to cite them, read the
paper. Anyway. The challenge of climate change needs to be recast, and the
usual suspects in the environmental world are not the ones to do it. This
isn't so much a reflection on these groups as it is a reflection of what gets
across to people. As soon as people see that the source of a message is from
one of the old school environmental groups, they tend to pigeonhole what the
person is about to say. They also tend to make the assumption that in order to
help the environment, we need to hurt the economy to do so. This is not true.
I've pointed to them before, but I'll do it again; The [Apollo
Alliance](http://www.apolloalliance.org/) is helping to prove just the
opposite. Regulation of the economy creates jobs since somebody has to, say,
install scrubbers on smokestacks to catch SO2. The Apollo Alliance comes
across really well in blue-collar areas of the country, ones that typically
could not be bothered with the environment. But it's not that these people
don't care about the environment. As soon as the idea is pitched and people
realize it will create jobs, people start talking about the benefits that it
will have for the local environment as well.

  
The assertion that environmentalism is dead comes out of this fact, that
traditional environmental groups are not able to get their message across,
primarily becuase they tend to insist on using the "louder and slower"
technique. They say, "well, the American public just doesn't understand the
issues here, or the science. If we could just get them to understand that,
then we'd be okay and they would change behavior." Shellenberger and Nordhaus
argue that this is not the case. You need to cast things in an aspirational
light, they say; there's a reason that Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. gave an "I
Have a Dream" speech and not a "I Have a Nightmare" speech.

  
When asserting that environmentalism is dead, the paper naturally drew some
criticism from those working in environmentalism. I think that the title
served to draw much needed attention more than it was an actual pronouncement.
The authors certainly don't want to see people stop trying on the environment.
After this flavor of environmentalism dies, there will of course be some new
form that comes out of it. The people who were probably most upset initially
were the ones who have already realized what the authors are asserting, the
ones who were calling the paper, as Michael Oppenheimer put it, "obvious";
however, these people are the ones who are going forward and becoming the new
face of environmentalism, the face of an environmentalism that actually works.
One of these groups is [The Breakthrough
Institute](http://www.thebreakthrough.org/index.php), closely tied with
Shellenberger and Nordhaus, as well as George Lakoff and the Apollo Alliance,
who not surprisingly, also has it right, although I don't really think they
were upset at the publication of the paper.

  
The whole thing is very exciting. The environmental movement is in good hands.
While the whole thing does seem fairly optimistic, I really think that it's
got good reason to be. If the framing that they are using can inspire optimism
in everyone, we've got the game won, since the technology is not what is
lacking here.

