---
type: post
layout: main
title: "Front sprawl"
---
What could be even more appalling to James Howard Kunstler and company than
the suburbs? [The exurbs](http://www.nytimes.com/2005/08/15/national/15exurb.h
tml?ex=1281758400&en=1c3dc0afa5dd8b9e&ei=5090&partner=rssuserland&emc=rss).

If the extension of government services to the suburbs is a huge money sink,
the extension of those services to the exurbs is a black hole. This is one
issue mentioned in the three [letters to the
editor](http://www.nytimes.com/2005/08/17/opinion/l17exurbs.html) in response
to the NYT article.

KB Home is the big, bad developer in this story, and the exurb in question is
New River, Florida.

> They know almost to the dollar how much buyers are willing to pay to
exchange a longer commute for more space, a sense of higher status and the
feeling of security.

  
...

  
The answer, the company decided, is that a house in New River must be $12,000
cheaper than the same house in the north Tampa suburbs, 15 minutes closer to
downtown.

  
Suddenly, the situation described in last week's _Washington Post_
[article](http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-
dyn/content/article/2005/08/10/AR2005081002110_pf.html) doesn't sound that bad
-- many things are a five-minute drive, and everything is a fifteen-minute
drive away.

  
The effects of [three-dollar
gas](http://gristmill.grist.org/story/2005/8/16/182925/221) occur on different
timetables in different sectors of the economy. The [retail
industry](http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-
dyn/content/article/2005/08/16/AR2005081601772.html) may be feeling the
effects already. It takes longer for people to switch to more fuel efficient
cars, and even longer for people to express that they value a shorter commute
by increasing the demand for homes that aren't "in the middle of nowhere."

  
Might it be time to concede that people are unwilling to relinquish cars and
instead promote communities where car use can be minimized?

