---
title: "We get letters..."
---
Blair writes:

> So how do you see this different richness operating in the consulting
culture? Think about all that is consumed by Accenture on a given day. What do
you think they could do to operate under a new paradigm? And how would we as
individuals change our ways?

  
  
The first thing that jumps to mind is a conversation I had with a graduate
student I was living with over a summer in Baltimore. She had a TON of hard
copies of articles printed out that she was reading for the research we were
doing, which was ironic because the research was on how deforestation in
suburban watersheds led to more intense flood events. The response that I
still remember was **"Sometimes you have to cut down a few trees to save the
forest."** I see a parallel here. My argument to justify the fact that
Accenture consumes many resources every day is that the resources are being
consumed for a good purpose, namely, to support the people who design business
systems and processes that are more efficient and consume fewer resources once
they are put into place. Accenture in particular can make this argument
because of its focus on high-tech companies and technical implementations.
Many of these projects provide the backbone for, say, a company to be able to
host meetings with clients remotely instead of flying people halfway around
the world to Japan.

  
The title of this post is a reference to the Letterman song, which is
apparently a reference to [Perry
Como](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/We_Get_Letters). In any case it makes me
miss [Rupert](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hello_Deli) and the [Hello
Deli](http://www.hello-deli.com/).

