---
title: "Dueling Perceptions of \"Kids These Days\""
---
Not to quash the cross-continental conversation that's been going on in the
last two posts (especially given the recent press that it's received), but
there are two interesting columns in the New York Times from two very smart
guys. The columns are currently jockeying for position on the most emailed
list - since David Brooks is in the lead right now he goes first here:


[The Odyssey Years](http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/09/opinion/09brooks.html?ex=1349668800&en=c55694c6ad19bc63&ei=5124&partner=permalink&exprod=permalink)

> Of the new [life phases], the least understood is odyssey, the decade of
wandering that frequently occurs between adolescence and adulthood...During
this decade, 20-somethings go to school and take breaks from school. They live
with friends and they live at home. They fall in and out of love. They try one
career and then try another...Young people grow up in tightly structured
childhoods, Wuthnow observes, but then graduate into a world characterized by
uncertainty, diversity, searching and tinkering. Old success recipes don't
apply, new norms have not been established and everything seems to give way to
a less permanent version of itself.


And in the other corner, weighing in at a hefty 201 pounds (200 is his actual
weight, the mustache adds the extra pound):


[Tom Friedman with "Generation Q"](http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/10/opinion/1
0friedman.html?ex=1349755200&en=ff29ccf489dafa9b&ei=5124&partner=permalink&exp
rod=permalink)

> I've been calling them "Generation Q" -- the Quiet Americans, in the best
sense of that term, quietly pursuing their idealism, at home and
abroad...Generation Q would be doing itself a favor, and America a favor, if
it demanded from every candidate who comes on campus answers to three
questions: What is your plan for mitigating climate change? What is your plan
for reforming Social Security? What is your plan for dealing with the deficit
-- so we all won't be working for China in 20 years?
