---
title: "Thoroughly Modern Do-Gooders"
---
When I read David Brooks I generally agree with what he has to say - and every
once in a while I come across an article that leads me to believe that he
either has mind-reading abilities or very candid informants in many of the
circles that I pay attention to.

  
His most recent [column](http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/21/opinion/21brooks.ht
ml?ex=1363838400&en=9856d5998bcb6eae&ei=5124&partner=permalink&exprod=permalin
k) is one such piece. The person he describes in the opening paragraphs is, in
short, what I want to be when I grow up:

  
"...typically went to some fancy school and then did a stint with Teach for
America or AmeriCorps before graduate school. Then, they worked for a software
firm before deciding to use what they'd learned in business to help the less
fortunate.

  
Now they work 80 hours a week, fighting bureaucracies and funding restrictions
in order to build, say, mentoring programs for single moms.

  
I'm not quite following the formula exactly in chronological order, but most,
if not all, of those pieces are in place (especially if doing Americorps over
a summer during undergrad counts). It's really quite scary how well Brooks can
peg a persona and then write about it. Maybe it says more about the persona
than Brooks, i.e. maybe it's a predictable one or one that lends itself to
self-promotion and that any ear (such as Brooks') that is willing to turn
towards such a person is bound to get an earful.

  
One reason why this persona appeals to me is its stark contrast with, to quote
another Times [article](http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/23/fashion/23envy.html?
ex=1364011200&en=7944492eccc82c8a&ei=5124&partner=permalink&exprod=permalink),
the much-maligned investment banker:

  
"[M]uch of the wealth at the top is derived from financial instruments that
merely move money around.

  
"It's one thing if people are adding value to society," Professor Frank said.
"But there is skepticism that this is all a shell game and these guys are not
adding value, at least to the extent that justifies their salaries.""
(Emphasis mine)

  
Even if someone goes into that business of 'moving money around' with the
intention of making a lot of that money for themself and then using what they
reap to help fund the very institutions started by Brooks' "modern do-gooder,"
why not just cut out the middleman? Life's too short, and the problems are too
great, to postpone this value adding or to do it in any sort of roundabout
way. Get in there and get dirty, dammit!

  
The one concern with this sort of thing is that there is always the lurking
motivation to do good so you can have a good story to tell over cocktails or
to prove to yourself beyond a reasonable doubt that you are doing good. Many
people motivated by the second (and to some extent the first) have already
been siphoned off to start their "stint with Teach for America or AmeriCorps,"
or the Princeton equivalents, Princeton in X and P55. It will be interesting
to see how many of my classmates continue on the David Brooks route
afterwards.

