---
layout: main
title: "Frigid Infliction 2008"
---
Long time no blog. The cause: a client deadline at the end of last week
combined with the 2008 edition of the [FRIGID
INFLICTION](http://www.gmara.org/frigid/index.html), a 10 hour adventure race
held in Bolton Valley, Vermont. I was participating with the rest of Team Sea
Savage, who debuted last May at the SAVAGE adventure race in PA (and yes, the
names of all adventure races must be in all caps).

  
The difference between the two races was night and day. At the SAVAGE we
mountain biked, orienteered, and canoed, with our biggest concerns being
sunburn and heat exhaustion; at the FRIGID INFLICTION we skied, snowshoed, and
postholed, with our biggest concerns being frostbite and hypothermia.

  
However, both races had a few things in common. Navigation played a huge role
in both. Both races contained disciplines that I (and other members of Team
Sea Savage) had little to no experience in: mountain biking and cross-country
skiing. As expected, in both races those sections of the course were by far
the hardest, required us to carry the implements that were in fact supposed to
aid us for a significant portion of that segment, and each section also
contained some of the most spectacular wipeouts.

  
Both races, however, were ridiculously fun. This one especially provided a
much-needed taste of winter, which I have not had in some time. After the
race, the Princeton contingent, which made up a significant portion of the
field, headed to upstate New York and <strike>[Camp
Pok-O-MacCready](http://www.pokomac.com/)</strike> the [Pok-O-MacCready
Outdoor Education Center](www.pmoec.org) to spend Saturday night. We awoke to
a delicious breakfast and a tour of the camp, including a walk on a very
frozen lake on a very sunny morning.

  
More details about this year's race can be found
[here](http://www.gmara.org/frigid/results08.shtml); Tim Curtin, the race
director, has a review that takes a bird's eye view of the day. And of course
there are [pictures
galore](http://gmara.smugmug.com/gallery/4437056_FcCNN#260728629); still
waiting on the facebook flood to arrive.

  
Next year - we train for it!

