---
type: post
layout: main
title: "Rails Rumble 2009 - Vote For Your Favorite App"
---
** Originally published on [TechCrunch](http://www.techcrunch.com/2009/08/29/rails-rumble-2009-vote-for-your-favorite-app/) **   
  
Ruby on Rails is well-known for being a powerful tool to help developers
quickly turn ideas into working code. [Rails
Rumble](http://www.railsrumble.com) harnesses that power and drives it to its
only logical conclusion: a 48-hour programming competition pitting more than
200 teams of coders against one another for some pretty [serious
prizes](http://blog.railsrumble.com/prizes). Each team of up to four people is
provided with exactly the same thing: a virtual private server from
[Linode](http://www.linode.com), a private repository on
[GitHub](http://www.github.com), and a really tight deadline. BYO caffeine.

  
The competition has ended and now that many of the contestants are awake
again, it's time for the public to kick the tires on these mini-applications
and vote to decide who will take home the championship belt (and no, that's
not a figure of speech in this case. There really is a belt). The 22 finalists
include something for everyone, whether you're a
[developer](http://r09.railsrumble.com/teams/microbrew-certified-partners)
working to nail down requirements, a
[boozehound](http://r09.railsrumble.com/teams/acts_as_ninjas) trying to figure
out what cocktails you can make with the leftovers from last night's party, an
[old-school arcade nut](http://r09.railsrumble.com/teams/734m) looking to play
multi-player Asteroid, or a [hopeless
romantic](http://r09.railsrumble.com/teams/van-damme) trying to employ Twitter
to woo a crush.

  
Even the teams that don't come away with any material prizes will have gained
some very valuable feedback on whether their idea might have any legs in the
long run. Fifteen of the entries from the [2008
competition](http://r08.railsrumble.com/) are still active and available to
users, including all of the prize-winning applications.

  
So head on over and [check out the
applications](http://r09.railsrumble.com/entries), leave some feedback, and
vote for your favorite(s). Voting ends tomorrow, Sunday, at 5 pm PST. You'll
be deciding a grand prize that includes a netbook for each team member and a
bottle of 12 year Pappy Van Winkle Whiskey (from GitHub - I knew those guys
were classy), not to mention year-long bragging rights.

