---
layout: main
title: "Update: RecycleBank"
---
On the day of my last post, the Dow closed at 11,516.92. I apologize for the
amount of time that has passed; for the amount of "wealth" that has thus
vaporized, I can offer no similar sentiment.

  
But that's not the subject of this post. Much has happened since September 2,
2008, presidential elections and recessions aside. That's right - this post is
one of "those" posts. A navel-gazer. More diary entry than anything else,
these posts are all too commonly spotted in the wild, often as the solitary
entry in a defunct LiveJournal.

  
In December, I left my job at the [Big Consulting
Firm](http://www.accenture.com) where I had been working since graduating in
2007. Once I realized that I would not be happy on the typical career path up
that ladder, it was a quick exit. I was able to find another opportunity very
quickly, and started on January 5th as a "Developer-Analyst" with
[RecycleBank](http://www.recyclebank.com). RecycleBank works with cities and
private haulers to raise the recycling rates in the households that they
service, by recording individuals' recycling habits and awarding points based
on those habits. The points can then be redeemed for gift cards and other
incentives. I'm working on the team that writes the software to process the
data we receive from the trucks and allow people to receive their rewards.

  
I was (and still am) extremely excited about this opportunity, first and
foremost because the company is a startup. "Startup" is a bit of a loose term,
and RecycleBank is by no means a small company that is just starting to try
out its model - we're already in 15 states and serve over 200,000 households.
However, RecycleBank still has what I would consider to be the distinguishing
characteristics of a startup, or the ones that are meaningful to me. For one:
rapid growth, with an eye on even more growth. For another: dynamic teams,
high energy, and flexible work processes. In other words, the specifics of how
the company is going to achieve its goals are still very much up in the air,
but everyone is going like gangbusters to try out different ideas. It's the
kind of environment that makes me excited to go to work, which is never a bad
thing considering how many of your waking hours you spend there.

  
These are all aspects of the company that I *expected or *assumed prior to
joining, based on my interviews, research, and just knowing that it was a
startup. To date its all been true to form, and I'm very pleased about that.

  
The other major draw was the technology that RecycleBank is using to build its
applications. It's been almost two years since I started working with [Ruby on
Rails](http://rubyonrails.org/), the framework that we're using for the bulk
of our work. It's great to be in a position where we're using it for something
a bit more "mainstream" or "enterprise" than many Rails projects out there.
Rails is still the new kid on the block, with a lot to prove to those who
don't think it will ever be a useful tool for "serious" business. Hopefully
the work we're doing with it can eventually be evidence to the contrary.

