---
type: post
title: "The way we [should] share now: Tonido"
---
[Tonido](http://tonido.com) is a company after my own heart. They address many
of the [concerns that I have](http://citingthetext.blogspot.com/2009/03/raw-
normalized-data-now-tim-berners-lee.html) about the way that people publish
and share their own content online. The short version of that post is that you
should be able to publish content in one place, that you control, and easily
choose how to share each individual item with your friends (as well as which
friends to share it with).


Tonido takes a big step in that direction. By providing a [low-cost, energy-
sipping, user-friendly home server](http://www.tonidoplug.com/what.html), they
make it easy for people to take their data out of the cloud but not lose any
of the associated benefits.


The other development in this arena that has me excited is Facebook's
[decision](http://developers.facebook.com/news.php?blog=1&story=225) to
further open their API and make it even easier for third party sites to
seamlessly integrate a user's network into his experience on the site.


In other words, it allows me to do something like host my own photos on my own
server (or Tonido if I so choose), and have any social activity (new albums,
comments, tags) be posted back to Facebook just as if it had happened there in
the first place. This is a huge shift (though one that Facebook has slowly
been inching towards for a while now).


But we're not there yet, which is the most exciting part. I could easily see
Tonido, as much as I like them, getting overtaken by a fast follower who
offers a more appealing combination of applications or even more seamless
integration with social networks.


Maybe I'll even give it a shot -- after all, I have [10 spare hours a
week](http://www.37signals.com/svn/posts/1078-it-doesnt-have-to-be-all-or-
nothing-with-a-startup).
