---
type: post
title: "GitHub Hits One Million Hosted Repositories"
---
**_This post was originally published [on TechCrunch](http://techcrunch.com/2010/07/24/github-one-million/)_**

[GitHub](http://github.com), the source code hosting and collaboration
service, has hit a major milestone tonight: the site is now hosting one
million projects, confirmed [Scott Chacon](http://www.crunchbase.com/person
/scott-chacon), VP of Research and Development at GitHub. Approximately 60
percent of these projects are full repositories - that is, shared folders with
code spread across multiple files - while the remaining 40 percent are
"gists", or short code snippets contained in a single file, like [this
one](http://gist.github.com/222182), for example.

[GitHub](http://www.crunchbase.com/company/github) has seen rapid growth since
it launched in February 2008, all despite the fact that the company has
eschewed the traditional venture capital funding route. In an exchange that
took place, appropriately enough, via the messaging system built into GitHub,
Chacon stated that the company is still "funding free and very profitable" and
that they are seeing "incredible growth for GitHub and Git usage in general."
In January 2009 they [won a Crunchie](http://techcrunch.com/2009/01/10
/congratulations-to-the-crunchies-winners-facebook-takes-top-prize-for-second-
year/) for best bootstrapped startup.

The profit comes from the [paid plans](http://github.com/plans) that GitHub
offers for those developers and companies who want to host their repositories
privately. GitHub offers essentially unlimited hosting to anyone who is
willing to make their code open source, but charges based on the number of
private repositories and the number of contributors for other projects. This
profitability has spurred the launch of a number of new features of late, such
as [Organizations](http://github.com/blog/674-introducing-organizations),
which offers more advanced workflow tools for projects with multiple
contributors and varying permissions, and [support for fifteen new
languages](http://github.com/blog/679-github-in-your-language).

GitHub is a key part of the software development ecosystem, hosting a number
of notable code bases, including [Ruby on
Rails](http://github.com/rails/rails), the [jQuery](http://github.com/jquery)
JavaScript library and the [Linux
kernel](http://github.com/mirrors/linux-2.6). Git, the distributed version
control software that GitHub is based on, was in fact built by Linus Torvalds,
the lead developer and maintainer of the Linux kernel, and the source code for
[Git itself](http://github.com/git) is also hosted on GitHub. TechCrunch hosts
a number of repositories using the service, including some that are [open
source](https://github.com/techcrunch), and Twitter has recently been
[publishing](http://twitter.com/about/opensource) the source for several of
their gems and other code, using GitHub to do so. Ruby and JavaScript are the
[most popular languages](http://github.com/languages) on GitHub, with 19 and
17 percent of the hosted code respectively, but there are currently projects
in over 50 languages on the service: everything from Visual Basic to Go.
