---
type: post
title: "Race Report: Muir Woods Marathon"
---
**Result: 8th place. 3:10:48.**

After the [Summit Rock Half Marathon](http://andybrett.com/summit-rock-half)
in December, I found my weekend long runs remaining solidly in the 10+ mile
range, so after a particularly good 13-miler, I decided that this would be a
good time to push things up to a full marathon. After looking at a few race
calendars, the Muir Woods Marathon was the most suitable choice in terms of
both its timing and its [challenges](http://andybrett.com/updates/839) -
plenty of elevation change and technical trails to be conquered.

Training progressed nicely until about five weeks out from the race, when I
got back from about 20 miles and slowly realized that it was now extremely
painful to bear any weight on my left foot. I was meeting some friends later
that day and I vividly remember getting there early in order to 1) conceal my
pronounced limp and 2) secure a table where I could elevate my foot.

My amateur diagnosis was a metatarsal stress fracture, and my amateur
treatment plan was two days completely off. The upcoming two weeks, however,
were pivotal ones in terms of building strength before tapering. The solution
I came up with was to reduce mileage but make every mile count - namely, by
running uphill. I am now very familiar with the Rhus Ridge trail at Rancho San
Antonio Park.

Race week arrived, and suddenly the fact that the part of the race was located
in a national park became extremely relevant because of the impending shutdown
of the federal government. We heard from the organizers on Friday that we
would have to go with "Plan B" - an altered course that stayed entirely within
Mt. Tamalpais State Park.

The new course would start - and finish - at about 2,000 feet, turning the
last 5 miles of the race into an 1,800 foot climb up from the valley floor.
Thanks, federal government!

Undeterred, I went ahead with my pre-race preparations, namely, a Super
Burrito from the taqueria in Mountain View. In semi-scientific testing while
training, I determined that a this was the ideal meal the night before a long
run. The movie selection was "North by Northwest," starring Marissa Mayer
lookalike Eva Marie Saint.

![](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/256663/andybrett.com/northby.jpg)

Cary Grant also looked a little bit like John Boehner, but I think that may
have just been the availability heuristic kicking in.

Saturday dawned clear and very crisp: 37 F when I left the house. It had
warmed up by the time I crossed the Golden Gate into Marin, and I arrived a
little earlier than I had planned.

![](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/256663/andybrett.com/IMAG0451.jpg)

Dave, the race director, shepherded us into an amphitheater and delivered a
booming pre-race briefing. He went over the course - technically courses, as
the marathon, 25k and 7 mile all shared portions of the same trails - and
emphasized the steep uphill climb in the final miles and told us that we
should blame him for it. We were led in the singing of "America the Beautiful"
and we were off - or were we?

Dave had said "Go!" - but we were all standing on the seating rungs of a huge
amphitheater. The herd began ascending, not really sure if we should be
running yet. At some point, a consensus was reached, and I started weaving my
way up through the pack. Luckily the first part of the course provided good
visibility and I was soon able to spot the leaders and count how many heads
were in front of me. By the time things had shaken out, it was in the low
teens.

We made the first turn onto the Coastal Trail and some of the more incredible
scenery on the course - a vast panorama of the Pacific all the way down to San
Francisco and Baker Beach. I continued to keep an eye on the leaders cutting
across the open hillside and at one point spotted several deer bounding
alongside some runners.

The Coastal Trail was fairly flat but very narrow - literally not more than
two feet wide in most places. As we worked our way back to Pan Toll we started
to see some stream crossings and we had to pay more and more attention to our
footing. This trend accelerated as we started the plunge into Muir Woods.

I had done a training run along this trail the previous week and done a
[Picard Face Plant](http://picardfacepalm.com/) after catching a root at full
speed (thanks [Laura](http://twitter.com/auralab) for that neologism). No
similar incidents this time, as the extra prep work paid off and I found
myself gaining ground through the most technical sections. I was in a loose
group of four as we hit the valley floor, though I believe the other three
were all doing the 25k and not the full marathon.

As we began the first climb, some very amused hikers were headed the other
direction and were nice enough to be keeping count of the runners going up the
hill. They informed me I was in 10th, though I assume they were including
everyone they saw in that total, including any 25k runners.

The uphills really strung the racers out, and by the time I entered the aid
station I couldn't even see or hear anyone else. I slowed down to eat a clif
bar and water with minimal success, but I wanted to make sure that I got
something down. As I was ramping back up, I was passed rather emphatically by
someone who either hadn't stopped for aid or ramped up a lot faster. By this
point the 25k course had already broken off toward the finish, so he was
definitely a marathoner. I put it out of my mind and settled back in with the
aid of a long downhill stretch.

I got into a good groove that took me all the way to the start of the final
five mile climb. With about two miles left I was really starting to hurt and I
gave up another spot to a guy wearing Salomons (always a bad sign for your
cause if they're wearing Salomons), but I was able to stick with him for a
while. As I started to lose contact, I spotted my friend from earlier at the
aid station, a few switchbacks ahead.

I was gaining on him, but slowly. With about a mile left we hit some brutally
steep hills and I realized that by walking the steepest parts, I was actually
gaining ground, and I moved ahead on the next flat. I think he realized this
and started doing it too. So here we were, like two boxers, staggering up the
final hills too exhausted to deliver a knockout punch to the other.

At some point I made a bet that I was close enough to the finish to run the
rest without my legs giving out. It turned out to be a well placed one and I
finished a "full" six seconds ahead of him.

![](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/256663/andybrett.com/82910-015-027f.jpg)

I only had a rough idea of the results at the time, but found out later that I
was 8th overall and finished in 3:10:48. It's not an official time, but it
does just barely sneak under the current qualifying time for the Boston
Marathon. That was a nice little +1 to take home, though I doubt I would ever
enter that race for a number of reasons - for one, it's way too flat [Edit -
it actually [drops in
elevation](http://www.boston.com/sports/marathon/course/map/)! What kind of a
race is that?].

After recovering a bit, the Sand Dollar restaurant was offering a free beer
for all runners. I'm noticing this as a trend - [great races have beer at the
finish](https://picasaweb.google.com/andybrett/Even_more_Coast_Raid#5267122563
367200914).

![](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/256663/andybrett.com/IMAG0454.jpg)

I continued to recover for a while in town and then took my time heading back
down the coast to take advantage of the beautiful day.

![](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/256663/andybrett.com/IMAG0456.jpg)

It's somewhat tempting to find a nice, flat course later this year and really
go after a fast time. I really get a lot of satisfaction out of the technical
trail running, however - it's just flat out fun (pun intended).

I have a recovery week planned this week before getting ramped back up again
for Bay to Breakers and (hopefully) the Dipsea in June. The good news is that
the hills on those courses are looking downright flat by comparison.
