---
type: post
layout: main
title: "Light sweet crude reading"
---
Peak oil made what might be described as its MSM debut today, and in dramatic
fashion, as the [cover story](http://www.nytimes.com/2005/08/21/magazine/21OIL
.html?ex=1282276800&en=4c742b408ca7847a&ei=5090&partner=rssuserland&emc=rss)
in the _[New York Times
Magazine](http://www.nytimes.com/pages/magazine/index.html?8dpc)_. Weighing in
at just about 9,000 words, the article by Peter Maass qualifies as a quick
read just about as much as it qualifies as uplifting.

  
After describing some of the effects of peak oil on life as we know it, Maass
then asks: "But will such a situation really come to pass?" ([Collective
sigh](http://www.theoildrum.com/)). Like it or not, Maass then says, Saudi
Arabia is the key to the if and when of peak oil. It's difficult to read the
article and not be, among other things, a little miffed about the practices of
Saudi Arabia and the rest of OPEC, between the vague numbers about output and
reserves and the outright refusal to be audited. Matt Simmons, the peak oil
"Cassandra" of the article, is frustrated as well -- if the Saudis issued the
necessary data, he says,

> "It would then take anybody less than a week to say, 'Gosh, Matt is totally
wrong,' or 'Matt actually might be too optimistic.'"

For better or worse, Maass presents both sides of the story throughout the
article, leading off the concluding section with "So whom to believe?" After
citing a [US DOE](http://www.energy.gov/engine/content.do)
[report](http://www.hilltoplancers.org/stories/hirsch0502.pdf) [PDF] that
claims the peak oil will be "abrupt and revolutionary," the article states (in
the very next sentence) that "Most experts do not share Simmons's concerns
about the imminence of peak oil." He does, however conclude by saying that,

> When a crisis comes -- whether in a year or 2 or 10 -- it will be all the
more painful because we will have done little or nothing to prepare for it.

For more on "PO," check out [Dave's
post](http://gristmill.grist.org/story/2005/8/3/151536/5739) handicapping the
Hamilton v. Kaufmann, free-market v. intervention discussion.

