---
type: post
layout: main
title: "TV Turnoff Week"
---
While I suppose that this is skipping Earth Day/Earth Week, I found an
interesting discussion of TV Turnoff Week. This is an [annual
campaign](http://www.adbusters.org/metas/psycho/tvturnoff/) run by Adbusters
and others to get people to not watch television for one week. This year it's
April 25-May 1. In addition, Adbusters is now selling the
[TV-B-Gone](https://secure.adbusters.org/orders/tvbgone/) (at cost until April
25th!), a device that acts as a universal remote and will allow the user to
turn off any TV in any public place to help remind people of what week it is.

  
The discussion is at [Hit and
Run](http://www.reason.com/hitandrun/2005/04/idiot_vs_idiot.shtml), run by
Julian Sanchez, who kicks it off by saying:

> Except, naturally, they've found a way to turn what had been voluntary and
innocuous [TV Turnoff Week] into something intrusive and obnoxious [the
TV-B-Gone].

I like Adbusters, but I have to say that the TV-B-Gone is going a little far.
Is it a pretty funny prank? Sure. But it does reek of the whole imposing your
values/choices on others thing if you make it the kind of cultural revolution
that Adbusters espouses. If you don't like TV, don't watch it. Instead of TV
Turnoff week, just don't watch it. Ever. That's your choice. Instead of
foisting it on others, let people make their own decisions. As far as the
argument that if the TV is on in a public place (airport, restaurant, etc.) it
is being foisted upon you I would echo some of the comments in the discussion
that follows at Hit and Run: if you don't want to watch it, move. If it's
absolutely unavoidable, which I have a hard time believing, stop frequenting
whatever place it is, and write a letter to the relevant parties explaining
why you've stopped.

  
On a related note, some asshole just came into Wilcox and turned the TV
on...I'm going to go sit by the other couches. :-)

