---
type: post
layout: main
title: "Response"
---
I got into an interesting if not heated IM conversation the other day about
[Laura's
post](http://www.livejournal.com/users/boyceterous/8939.html?mode=reply). (As
an aside, Laura: GET A BLOGGER ACCOUNT. LiveJournal doesn't have a permalink
feature, so I'm hoping that linking to the comments page will work). Anyway,
I'm going to copy the part of her post that we were discussing. It's long so
I'm going to bold some things for emphasis.

  
The second thing I've been struggling against is a growing feeling of
disillusionment with the world in general, particularly American society, more
particularly American consumerism and religious fanaticism and racism and the
media. And apathy, maybe that one most of all. Most of this is a result of my
experience with teaching social science classes (as I said already, a very
positive experience) and with attending lectures and optional seminars at GS,
and from hotseat conversations. We discussed a lot of issues that are really
important to know about, and that I wish I had learned about at the students'
age, but discussing so many in such a short period of time is discouraging.
**So many of these problems, like the injustices and human rights violations
that go along with free trade; the racial inequities that have developed from
a hundreds-year-long legacy of private and governmental discrimination; the
objectification, sexism, racism, and heterosexism displayed by and transmitted
through advertising; the inadequacy and misplaced values of American primary
and secondary education; and the despicability of corporations in general
require an entire transformation of our culture to be addressed or solved.
They require changing the minds of an entire citizenry, as well as the
unconscious assumptions, values, stereotypes, and priorities that shape
opinions.** I just feel so insignificant. More and more I realize I want to do
something with my life that will make a difference; I want to fight injustice
in some way. But there are so many injustices, and they're so big and
structural and systemic and fundamental, and I don't know how I can even make
a tiny dent. I've gotten more interested in being a teacher this summer. Even
though it's just a tiny part of the equation, I believe education is the best
tool with which to approach a lot of these problems, and maybe I could give a
few kids some moral outrage, if nothing else. **One of my biggest frustrations
is the apathy of the American public, including a lot of the enormously gifted
students I helped teach (although not all of them, and a lot were much more
aware by the end). There's a refusal to accept responsibility for activities
we are complicit in, as consumers (i.e. third world sweatshops), as citizens
(who allow our airways and government and lives more generally to be
controlled by corporations and a media that is the puppet of those
corporations), as participants in a variety of unjust systems. If we are just
passive participants, we don't feel we bear any of the guilt.** Acknowledging
the failures of the systems is a good enough moral accomplishment (most don't
even do that much); actually changing the system is too much to ask. We refuse
to recognize our obligations to others because we fear they're too much for us
to bear and that what we can offer is insignificant and that others won't join
in; of course, the problem with this thinking is that as long as everyone
thinks that, nothing happens, and as soon as everyone stops thinking that,
everything can change. But how to make everyone realize that our society is
fucked up and we have the power to change it--that is the question. I have to
content myself with smaller goals than an entire cultural transformation,
maybe. I also have to avoid escapism, or at least that's what I think at the
moment. Anyway, look at me, I'm sounding like a crazy liberal socialist
conspiracy theorist, so Governor's School must have been a success. This is
all I can handle at the moment. I will write more later. I've missed all you
readers.

  
Whew, okay, now this is me again.

  
After calling me "Friedman" almost immediately in the conversation for saying
that working in a factory was better than starving, Laura then asserted that
if corporations "force" people off the land and into factories, the people
might be going into a worse situation, with which I definitely disagreed.

  
The reason I disagree is that Americans seem to have a kind of romantic
nostalgia about indiginous peoples living the same way their ancestors have
for thousands of years and see anyone who would change that as evil. This is
despite the fact that most of the ancestors in question probably died of
disease at the age of 30, if they made it that far. Life on the farm in the
countries where people are being "forced" off the farms is nasty, brutish, and
short. They are coming to the cities because if you have a few bad weeks in
the city, no big deal -- if you have a few bad weeks in the country, you're
dead. The more people that are no longer living a subsistence farming
lifestyle that depends on the weather, the better.

  
Laura then said that these companies are making huge margins and it wouldn't
hurt them at all to treat their workers a little better. I disagreed with this
as well because

1. Going to the other countries to find cheaper labor isn't free. The company
still has to pay enourmous transport costs, so you can't directly compare
American wages to foreign wages when you're looking at how much of a margin a
company has.

2. If there's a company that could be paying its overseas employees more and
still be making enough of a margin for it to be "worth it" to make the move
overseas in the first place, another company (perhaps with a different
definition of "worth it") would be over there paying its employees more. Which
leads into...

3. Going overseas is not a risk-free endeavor. In order to counter the risk
that the government in the country might suddenly decide to seize your assets
or that some other catastrophe might occur, a wider profit margin is necessary
to get the company there in the first place (to make it "worth it").

  
All of this seems to back up the assertion that I am now a raging libertarian,
as I first (and more fully) discussed
[here](http://www.princeton.edu/~abrett/2005/07/ramble-on.html). I gave
reasons and everything.

  
I'm going to post more but do it separately.

