---
type: post
layout: main
title: "Software and Construction"
---
Matt over at 37 Signals has a recent post on [the difference between a fifty-
year-old carpenter and a novice](http://www.37signals.com/svn/posts/1042
-christopher-alexander-on-the-difference-between-a-fifty-year-old-carpenter-
and-a-novice). As 37 Signals is a software company, the parallel between
software development and a construction project is thinly veiled. I'd like to
think it supports [my own assertion](http://citingthetext.blogspot.com/2008/05
/sun-began-to-set-over-mountains-which.html) that these two professions are
not all that unlike each other.

  
The excerpt from Matt's post notes that:

  
Members can be moved around before they are firmly in place. All those
detailed design decisions which can never be worked out in advance on paper,
can be made during the building process.

  
Perhaps this is exposing my own naivete or lack of understanding about
different approaches to development, but the parallel in software development
that jumps to mind is that of [agile development
approach](http://www.versionone.com/Resources/AgileBenefits.asp) as opposed to
a traditional or "[waterfall](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Waterfall_model)"
approach. Like the expert carpenter who doesn't set anything in stone and is
constantly able to adapt to changing requirements and be creative in **every
step of the process**, agile developers are free from rigid requirements and
processes.

  
On a related note, I've begun a small side project, a volunteer effort at work
for a non-profit. I'll have a decent amount of responsibility in most of the
technical and design aspects of a web application. Already I'm beginning to
see the stark contrast between myself and the members of the team that have
been schooled in the waterfall school of thought - I think it will certainly
be a challenge to integrate these two different philosophies.

