---
type: post
layout: main
title: "Raw [Normalized] Data Now: Tim Berners-Lee and the Future of the Web"
---
Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the internet, [recently spoke](http://www.ted.com
/index.php/talks/tim_berners_lee_on_the_next_web.html) at the 2009 TED
conference. His talk was an inspirational glimpse into the life of someone who
has clearly never stopped exploring and always done what was intriguing to him
-- it just so happens that his road wound up providing a tremendous benefit to
society.

  
Some highlights of the talk were Tim's *sheer joy* at the notion that he had
made an addition to a [collaboratively edited
map](http://www.openstreetmap.org/); a new Three. Word. Mantra (Raw Data Now);
and a shoutout to a previous [outstanding TED talk](http://www.ted.com/index.p
hp/talks/hans_rosling_shows_the_best_stats_you_ve_ever_seen.html) on the power
of making data useful and universally accessible (sounds
[familiar](http://www.google.com/corporate)).

  
Tim also put up a cartoon that made fun of the fact that all of these
different social sites (Facebook, LinkedIn, Flickr, etc.) exist in silos,
incapable of fully interacting with one another.

  

[![](http://lh6.ggpht.com/_I4LhiTRUeNQ/SbvXKkIQo-I/AAAAAAAAKkU/9ychMIhehNI/s28
8/Picture%202.png)](http://picasaweb.google.com/lh/photo/m75PtXei80_M97sCU_Om3
A?authkey=Gv1sRgCIXz9oeozMfImAE&feat=embedwebsite)

  
This is certainly a problem that the major sites are aware of and are working
to fix; Facebook, for example, allows me to import a feed of my activity on
Picasa (Google's photo storage/sharing service).

  
But it doesn't quite cut it. Photos are a perfect example of my point. Let's
say I have an album, and I want to keep it on Picasa (or Flickr, or wherever)
instead of Facebook because I don't want the picture size reduced (or any
other reason). However, I still want to tag my friends in that album, and if
people make comments, I want those to appear below the pictures.

  
The current solution is broken -- when's the last time you clicked through on
something like "John has uploaded new photos to Flickr" and left a comment on
his picture, after finding it tagged with all of John's Facebook friends?

  
The workaround hints at the solution. I have several photo albums that have
"_facebook" appended to their names. These albums are duplicates or near-
duplicates of albums that are stored elsewhere but that I wanted to share and
tag using my Facebook network.

  
Such duplication of data should leave anyone who works with databases (myself
included) banging your head against your keyboard right about now.
ao;idsgja;sodijadosifj. That's better.

  
We need to "normalize," in database-speak (read: stop duplicating), the
content that we put on the web. After all, it's our content! Right now we're
jumping through all sorts of hoops because Facebook has our network but Flickr
has more storage and better picture quality. Why should that matter? Why
should we have to make this compromise?

  
Instead of duplicating and distributing content, it needs to be in one single
place, accessible to those applications and sites that you give permission to.
You provide the information; Facebook provides the social network, the display
formatting, and the ability to easily allow others to make additions (e.g.
comments) to that information. Your. Raw. Data.

  
It's [REST](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_State_Transfer)
meets the social web.

  
Tim talked about how data is all about relationships (bing!). The most
challenging part of all this is making it simple to manage these
relationships. Let's move away from photos for a second and talk about another
piece of data that we would ideally keep in one place rather than duplicating
it across multiple sites: basic profile information.

  
Things like name and email address are straightforward. Any site that is
interacting with Your Raw Data probably requires one of these as their primary
way of distinguishing an account. But what about something like "favorite
books"? Or "professional experience"? I want the first to be on Facebook but
not LinkedIn, and vice versa for the second. Or what if I want to have
"homebrewing" on my list of interests on Facebook but replace it with "golf"
on that same list on LinkedIn?

  
Connections are perhaps an even better example, and one that's gotten more
attention - I want to be friends with my co-worker on LinkedIn, but not so
much on Facebook. How to manage those different relationships?

  
And to cite a far more useful example -- Tim talked about databases for
pharmaceutical companies and researchers, trying to find all the proteins with
certain characteristics. One lab might do an experiment and determine that a
protein does have the ability to do XY and Z - does that mean the connection
should be made? What if another lab produces a conflicting result? Who decides
whether it's a valid connection?

  
While there are a ton of people working on the problem right now, none of the
results I've used take the approach that I've outlined here. Many aggregate
from the current smorgasbord, which is certainly the easiest thing to do, but
not, in the long run, the most useful. If anyone is jumping out of their chair
right now and interested in a little side project, let me know :-)

  
I'm going to cut this off here but hopefully will have more to write about on
the topic soon. In the ultimate irony, these thoughts will be posted to my
blog and then imported as a "note" to Facebook. Any comments written in either
location will not be displayed in the other one.

