---
type: post
layout: main
title: "Goodbye, Facebook"
---
We're done here. Five years after signing up for an account, I am quitting The
Facebook. When I first filled in the profile information about my favorite
books, movies, and music, it never occurred to me that this information would
one day be made publicly accessible (without any option to make it private),
not to mention fed in bulk to advertisers on the site. I'm pretty sure that
five years ago, that was not the intention of the site's creators, but today
it very clearly is. The service has changed, as have the costs and benefits
associated with participating, and that calculus no longer makes sense for me.

  
That constant change has been perhaps the strongest reason for deleting my
account. I don't mean the much-aligned aesthetic changes, but rather the
[changes](http://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2010/04/facebook-timeline) to what it
means to have an account, to be in a network, to list an interest, to connect
to another site. I'm not a Luddite by any stretch, but these changes are being
made with Facebook's interests and bottom line in mind, each one more and more
clearly aimed at that end. This is certainly their prerogative, but it's no
longer something I wish to be a part of. The changes are not making the world
or the web a better place.

  
Yesterday at Google I/O, Dewitt Clinton said he would far rather have a
federated network of a million tiny social networks rather than one with a
billion users. Others on the
[panel](http://code.google.com/events/io/2010/sessions/fireside-chat-social-
web.html) drew parallels to the days when you could only email someone if they
were "in your network" - in the literal sense. The implication, of course, was
that Google is moving forward with the tools that will make cross-network
communication as seamless as emailing between Gmail and Hotmail is today.
Given that these are Google employees talking, he statement obviously has to
be taken with a grain of salt. However, the argument is still strong and I do
see this happening in the next five years.

  
Later tonight I'll be deleting - not deactivating - my Facebook account.
There's a bit of irony, of course, in that I'm posting this one last item to
Facebook, but it seemed like a good way to maybe encourage some others to take
the same step. I'm taking one thing with me before I go, though - my content.
Abandoning five years' worth of content was probably the biggest thing that
kept me from doing this sooner. Luckily Facebook's Graph API makes it very
easy to grab everything that you've put on the site in a structured way, and
I'll be doing this shortly. I'm not sure exactly what I'll do with it yet, but
I do know that I want it to live some place where I'm in control.

