---
type: post
layout: main
title: "The Best Camera Is the One You Don't Take Out of Your Pocket"
---
When I was younger I liked to read books about kids who were detectives, like
[Encyclopedia Brown](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Encyclopedia_Brown). There
was another series about a girl named [Cam Jansen](http://en.wikipedia.org/wik
i/Cam_Jansen#The_Cam_Jansen_mystery_series), who was aided in her detective
work by her photographic memory. When she wanted to remember a scene, she
simply said, "Click!" and it was permanently preserved.

Soon, [anyone will be able to do
this](http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/12/18/wearing-your-computer-on-your-
sleeve/).

I have a feeling that [Path](http://path.com) realized this a while ago and is
skating to where the puck is going to be. Their cutesy [demo
video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KQwA5tWIMIc) shows seamless transitions
between real life moments and the snapshots being captured in Path - in nearly
every situation it would have been incredibly awkward to say "hold on, let me
take out my camera to get a shot of this." Path is executing on the ideal
model for this future world in that these moments are "private by default". No
[data is mined](http://daringfireball.net/linked/2011/03/25/color-digging), no
social graphs are monetized.[1]

There are several other situations where some sort of wearable device vastly
improves an existing use case. I encounter one almost every time I go
[running](https://twitter.com/#!/andrewpbrett/status/39046414503772160) -
inevitably I'll want to capture some interesting piece of scenery, but I never
bring my phone with me, and even if I did I wouldn't really want to stop to
take it out. Put the [camera on my sunglasses](http://www.quora.com/How-large-
would-the-iPhone-4S-camera-have-to-be-if-the-device-did-nothing-but-take-and-
store-pictures?q=how+large+would+a+camera) - boom. Problem solved.

Another use case in [need of improvement](http://www.quora.com/What-went-
wrong-with-Jawbones-UP/answer/Andy-Brett) is one of the "features" of the
Jawbone UP - right now you're supposed to take a picture of every meal you
eat. Sites like Foodspotting have managed to get the early adopter set to make
a habit out of photographing every dish before they dig in, but if it's as
effortless as saying "click," suddenly it's a lot easier to get people at risk
for diabetes to keep a journal of what they're eating.

Thanks to [Sam Grossberg](http://twitter.com/samgrossberg) for unwittingly
listening to a first draft of this post over a beer a couple weeks ago.

[1] Here is my plea to Path: [**Don't let me be a free
user**](http://blog.pinboard.in/2011/12/don_t_be_a_free_user/). I know that I
can buy filters and buy songs on iTunes via Path, but that's not really tied
to the value that I'm getting from the app. How about a voluntary subscription
a la [Instapaper](http://instapaper.com)?

