---
type: post
layout: main
title: "Never Work A Day In Your Life"
---
Things are really starting to pick up at [Cake Health](http://cakehealth.com).
We have an enthusiastic group of beta users and we're letting in more people
every day from our [ever-growing](http://techcrunch.com/2011/06/07/founders-
den-first-class/) wait list. We're adding support for more providers and
plans, and we haven't stopped building features either.

I saw a [question](http://www.quora.com/Entrepreneurship/As-an-entrepreneur-
should-you-set-firm-hours-for-yourself-Do-weekends-exist) on Quora recently
that asked whether "weekends exist" when you're working on a startup. It
reminded me of the "punchcard" graph on GitHub that I had taken a [snap
shot](http://andybrett.com/crossing-the-streams) of a while back. It's an
approximation for when I've been writing code for Cake Health. Here's that
same graph, updated (bigger circles = more code):

![](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/256663/andybrett.com/punchcard.png)

Big chunks at 9 and 10 pm. At least some code written during every hour from 9
am to 1 am except Saturday, when I get started at 11 am - it wasn't a huge
stretch to realize that this was because Saturday mornings are reserved for
long runs. If this graph is any indication, my answer to that question on
Quora is pretty clearly "no."

It's not so simple though. I'm the first to advocate for making sure that
you're staying healthy and not becoming a martyr for the sake of your company
(or at the very least, not [wearing it as a badge of
honor](https://twitter.com/#!/markbao/status/77867969308409856)). You're going
to have to sustain this over years, not months or weeks. But if you're doing
it right, you're also working on something that you actually *want* to be
thinking about for the majority of your waking hours. I've never once felt
like I had to be pushing code, or woken up dreading what I was going to do
that day.

Lastly, as a side note (I swear this wasn't the original purpose of this
post), [we're hiring](http://cakehealth.com/jobs) - let me know if you would
also like to never work a day in your life.

